---
layout: post
title: 'Eucalyptus弹性计算云平台配置文件和xen配置文件(centos)'
date: 2009-12-28 14:43
comments: true
tags: ['xen','centos','平台']
---

Eucalyptus.conf文件：

# # Eucalyptus configuration. #### # These are to instruct the init.d script
on what to start. #### # This variable points to where eucalyptus has been
installed. EUCALYPTUS="/" # This is the username that you would like
eucalyptus to run as EUCA_USER="eucalyptus" # Uncomment this field if you do
not plan on using the dynamic block # store functionality of Eucalyptus #
DISABLE_EBS="Y" # Uncomment this field if you do not plan on using the dynamic
DNS # functionality of Eucalyptus DISABLE_DNS="Y" # This variable controls
whether ws-security is enabled between # eucalyptus components. The default
settings provide secure # connections between the Cloud, Cluster, and Node
Controllers and we # recommend that this feature remains enabled. If you wish
to disable security, # you must change this variable to "N" and manually
configure the # services.xml for both Cluster and Node Controllers (see
documentation # for more details). ENABLE_WS_SECURITY="Y" # This variable
controls the level of logging output that appears in # various eucalyptus log
files. The options are, in descending order # of verbosity, 'DEBUG, INFO,
WARN, ERROR, and # FATAL'. The default is DEBUG (everything). LOGLEVEL="DEBUG"
#### # These following are Cluster Controller configuration options. #### #
This is the port the Cluster Controller will be listening on. CC_PORT="8774" #
This option configures the Cluster Controller's scheduling policy. #
Currently, this option can be set to GREEDY (first node that is # found that
can run the VM will be chosen), ROUNDROBIN (nodes are # selected one after
another until one is found that can run the VM), # or POWERSAVE (nodes are put
to sleep when they are not running VMs, # and reawakened when new resources
are required. VMs will be placed # on the first awake machine, followed by
machines that are asleep). SCHEDPOLICY="ROUNDROBIN" # Powersave options.
POWER_IDLETHRESH is the number of seconds that a # node can remain idle (i.e.
no running VMs) before a powerdown is # attempted. POWER_WAKETHRESH is the
number of seconds that # Eucalyptus should wait after attempting a node wake-
up before it # will consider the node actually down (and not waking up).
POWER_IDLETHRESH="300" POWER_WAKETHRESH="300" # The list of Node Controllers
the Cluster Controller will communicate with. # # If you are running Rocks,
you can run "rocks list host" to # find out the list of machines available to
you (in our case we are # interested in the VM Container kind). NODES="
192.168.1.151" # The name of the Node Controller service. Change this if you
want # to plug in your own Node Controller service.
NC_SERVICE="axis2/services/EucalyptusNC" #### # The following are Node
Controller configuration options. #### # This is the port the Node Controller
will be listening on. NC_PORT="8775" # The hypervisor that the Node Controller
will interact with in order # to manage virtual machines. Currently, supported
values are 'kvm' # and 'xen'. HYPERVISOR="xen" # The maximum amount of memory
Eucalyptus is allowed to use on the node: # if you leave this commented out,
Eucalyptus will use all available # memory, otherwise it will use at most this
value for ALL running instances. # MAX_MEM=2048 # The maximum number of
CPU/cores Eucalyptus is allowed to use on the # node (at the moment we don't
differentiate between cores and CPU). If # you leave this commented out,
Eucalyptus will use all available # CPU/cores it can find. # MAX_CORES="2" #
The size of the swap partition, in MB, for each instance started on the # node
(default is 512MB). If the maximum disk allowed for the instance # is not big
enough to accommodate the swap together with the root partition, # then no
swap is allocated. If there is extra room left, then an "ephemeral" #
partition will be created, available as /dev/sda3 inside the VM. #
SWAP_SIZE=512 # Setting this to 1 disables the cleanup of instance files
(root, kernel, # ramdisk) for failed and terminated instances. This is not #
recommended for normal use, but it can be useful in debugging VM startup. #
MANUAL_INSTANCES_CLEANUP=0 #### # The following are options for image storage
on the Node Controller #### # This variable points to a directory which is
used by the Node Controller # to store images of running instances as well as
local cached copies of # images. The running images will be deleted after the
instance is # terminated, but the cached copies will persist, subject to LRU
cache # replacement and the NC_CACHE_SIZE size limit, below. So, this #
partition should be at least as big as the cache size (or the maximum # space
needed by all images, whichever is bigger) plus the maximum space # needed by
the maximum number of instances allowed on the node. # This directory should
be local to the Node Controller (as # opposed to a NFS share) for performance
reasons. INSTANCE_PATH="/usr/local/eucalyptus/" # The maximum amount of disk
space, in Megabytes, that Eucalyptus is # allowed to use in the cache
directory (INSTANCES_PATH/eucalyptus/cache). # A generous size is recommended.
Setting this to zero disables caching. # NC_CACHE_SIZE=99999 #### # The
following are networking options #### # The 2 variable VNET_PRIVINTERFACE and
VNET_PUBINTERFACE specify the # local physical ethernet interfaces that
eucalyptus should use to manage # the VM network. On the front-end,
VNET_PRIVINTERFACE should be set to # the device that is attached to the same
ethernet network as your nodes. # - VNET_PUBINTERFACE should be set to the
device which is connected to # the 'public' network. If you have only one
interface, these should # be set to the same value. On the nodes, both should
be set to # either the name of the bridge that has been set up by Xen (xenbr0,
# eth0, etc), or the physical ethernet device that is attached to the # xen
bridge (peth0, peth1, etc), depending on your xen configuration.
VNET_PUBINTERFACE="eth0" VNET_PRIVINTERFACE="eth0" # (node setting only)
VNET_BRIDGE should be set to the name of the # bridge that xen has configured.
This is typically named 'xenbr0, # xenbr1, etc' on older Xen versions, and
'eth0, eth1, etc' on newer # Xen versions. The command 'brctl show' will give
you more # information on your local bridge setup. #VNET_BRIDGE="xenbr0" #
This indicates where we have a dhcp server binary. We use it to provide # the
images with IPs: Eucalyptus provides its own configuration per # instance.
VNET_DHCPDAEMON="/usr/sbin/dhcpd" # Some systems have their DHCP daemon
configured to run as a non-root # user. If this is the case, set the name of
that user here (by # default, Eucalyptus will set up DHCPD configuration files
and # directories as owned by root). #VNET_DHCPUSER="root" # Following are
example eucalyptus VM networking configurations. # There are four modes to
choose from (MANAGED, MANAGED-NOVLAN, # SYSTEM, or STATIC) and each has its
own sub-options. The first # modes (MANAGED, MANAGED-NOVLAN) configure
eucalyptus to fully manage # the VM networks, and enables the ability to use
security groups and # dynamic public IP assignment (with and without vlan
tagging of # security group networks, respectively). VNET_SUBNET should be set
# to an IP subnet that is free for eucalyptus to use (i.e. no other # system
connected to your network directly is configured with # addresses from this
subnet). VNET_NETMASK defines the size of the # subnet. VNET_DNS should be set
to a DNS server that your systems # use (usually safe to use the same DNS that
is configured on the # front-end). VNET_ADDRSPERNET can be used to limit the
number of # instances that can be attached to each named security group #
simultaneously. Finally, VNET_PUBLICIPS should be set to any public # IPs,
that are currently unused, that can be dynamically assigned to # VMs. Of these
options, only VNET_PUBLICIPS can be left blank or # undefined. If you are
running in multi-cluster mode (more than one # CC), you should uncomment
VNET_LOCALIP and set it to the local IP of # the CC that is accessible by all
other CCs in the system. If # VNET_LOCALIP is unset, the CC will try to
determine the list of all # IPs currently assigned to the machine at CC run
time. If your CC # and CLC are on different machines, uncomment VNET_CLOUDIP
and set it # to your cloud-contoller's IP address (must be an address that can
be # reached by the CC). #VNET_MODE="MANAGED" #VNET_SUBNET="192.168.0.0"
#VNET_NETMASK="255.255.0.0" #VNET_DNS="your-dns-server-ip"
#VNET_ADDRSPERNET="32" #VNET_PUBLICIPS="your-free-public-ip-1 your-free-
public-ip-2 ..." #VNET_LOCALIP="your-public-interface's-ip" #VNET_CLOUDIP
="your-cloud-controller's-ip" # If you would like eucalyptus to not manage the
VM network at all, # you can set VNET_MODE to SYSTEM. In this mode, VM
interfaces are # attached directly to your physical ethernet, at which point
they # will typically invoke a DHCP client to aquire an IP address. Use # this
mode if you wish to manage VM IPs yourself, or allow the VMs to # pick up an
IP from a non-eucalyptus managed DHCP server. VNET_MODE="SYSTEM" # If
VNET_MODE is set to STATIC, you can manually configure a set of # IP addresses
that will be allocated to VMs at boot time in a first # come, first served
manner. VNET_SUBNET, VNET_NETMASK, and # VNET_BROADCAST define your subnet
(front-end must have an interface # configured on this subnet). VNET_ROUTER
defines the subnet's # gateway. VNET_DNS is a nameserver address. It is
usually safe to # get these settings by examining your front-end network
settings and # duplicating them here. VNET_MACMAP is a list of mac address/IP
# address mappings that you would like to be allocated to VMs at run # time
(see example below for the format of this list). #VNET_MODE="STATIC"
#VNET_SUBNET="192.168.1.0" #VNET_NETMASK="255.255.255.0"
#VNET_BROADCAST="192.168.1.255" #VNET_ROUTER="192.168.1.1"
#VNET_DNS="192.168.1.1" #VNET_MACMAP="AA:DD:11:CE:FF:ED=192.168.1.2
AA:DD:11:CE:FF:EE=192.168.1.3"

xend-config.sxp文件：

# -*- sh -*- # # Xend configuration file. # # This example configuration is
appropriate for an installation that # utilizes a bridged network
configuration. Access to xend via http # is disabled. # Commented out entries
show the default for that entry, unless otherwise # specified. #(logfile
/var/log/xen/xend.log) #(loglevel DEBUG) (xend-http-server yes) (xend-unix-
server yes) #(xend-tcp-xmlrpc-server no) #(xend-unix-xmlrpc-server yes)
#(xend-relocation-server no) # The relocation server should be kept
desactivated unless using a trusted # network, the domain virtual memory will
be exchanged in raw form without # encryption of the communication. See also
xend-relocation-hosts-allow option (xend-unix-path /var/lib/xend/xend-socket)
# Port xend should use for the HTTP interface, if xend-http-server is set.
#(xend-port 8000) # Port xend should use for the relocation interface, if
xend-relocation-server # is set. #(xend-relocation-port 8002) # Address xend
should listen on for HTTP connections, if xend-http-server is # set. #
Specifying 'localhost' prevents remote connections. # Specifying the empty
string '' (the default) allows all connections. #(xend-address '') (xend-
address localhost) # Address xend should listen on for relocation-socket
connections, if # xend-relocation-server is set. # Meaning and default as for
xend-address above. #(xend-relocation-address '') # The hosts allowed to talk
to the relocation port. If this is empty (the # default), then all connections
are allowed (assuming that the connection # arrives on a port and interface on
which we are listening; see # xend-relocation-port and xend-relocation-address
above). Otherwise, this # should be a space-separated sequence of regular
expressions. Any host with # a fully-qualified domain name or an IP address
that matches one of these # regular expressions will be accepted. # # For
example: # (xend-relocation-hosts-allow '^localhost$ ^.*/.example/.org$') #
#(xend-relocation-hosts-allow '') (xend-relocation-hosts-allow '^localhost$
^localhost//.localdomain$') # The limit (in kilobytes) on the size of the
console buffer #(console-limit 1024) ## # To bridge network traffic, like
this: # # dom0: fake eth0 -> vif0.0 -+ # | # bridge -> real eth0 -> the
network # | # domU: fake eth0 -> vifN.0 -+ # # use # (network-script network-
bridge) # # Your default ethernet device is used as the outgoing interface, by
default. # To use a different one (e.g. eth1) use # # (network-script
'network-bridge netdev=eth1') # # The bridge is named xenbr0, by default. To
rename the bridge, use # # (network-script 'network-bridge bridge=<name>') # #
It is possible to use the network-bridge script in more complicated #
scenarios, such as having two outgoing interfaces, with two bridges, and # two
fake interfaces per guest domain. To do things like this, write # yourself a
wrapper script, and call network-bridge from it, as appropriate. # #(network-
script network-bridge) # The script used to control virtual interfaces. This
can be overridden on a # per-vif basis when creating a domain or a configuring
a new vif. The # vif-bridge script is designed for use with the network-bridge
script, or # similar configurations. # # If you have overridden the bridge
name using # (network-script 'network-bridge bridge=<name>') then you may wish
to do the # same here. The bridge name can also be set when creating a domain
or # configuring a new vif, but a value specified here would act as a default.
# # If you are using only one bridge, the vif-bridge script will discover
that, # so there is no need to specify it explicitly. # (vif-script vif-
bridge) ## Use the following if network traffic is routed, as an alternative
to the # settings for bridged networking given above. #(network-script
network-route) #(vif-script vif-route) ## Use the following if network traffic
is routed with NAT, as an alternative # to the settings for bridged networking
given above. #(network-script network-nat) #(vif-script vif-nat) # Dom0 will
balloon out when needed to free memory for domU. # dom0-min-mem is the lowest
memory level (in MB) dom0 will get down to. # If dom0-min-mem=0, dom0 will
never balloon out. (dom0-min-mem 196) # In SMP system, dom0 will use dom0-cpus
# of CPUS # If dom0-cpus = 0, dom0 will take all cpus available (dom0-cpus 0)
# Whether to enable core-dumps when domains crash. #(enable-dump no) # The
tool used for initiating virtual TPM migration #(external-migration-tool '') #
The interface for VNC servers to listen on. Defaults # to 127.0.0.1 To restore
old 'listen everywhere' behaviour # set this to 0.0.0.0 #(vnc-listen
'127.0.0.1') # The default password for VNC console on HVM domain. # Empty
string is no authentication. (vncpasswd '') # The default keymap to use for
the VM's virtual keyboard # when not specified in VM's configuration (keymap
'en-us') # The VNC server can be told to negotiate a TLS session # to
encryption all traffic, and provide x509 cert to # clients enalbing them to
verify server identity. The # GTK-VNC widget, virt-viewer, virt-manager and
VeNCrypt # all support the VNC extension for TLS used in QEMU. The #
TightVNC/RealVNC/UltraVNC clients do not. # # To enable this create x509
certificates / keys in the # directory /etc/xen/vnc # # ca-cert.pem - The CA
certificate # server-cert.pem - The Server certificate signed by the CA #
server-key.pem - The server private key # # and then uncomment this next line
# (vnc-tls 1) # # The certificate dir can be pointed elsewhere.. # # (vnc-x509
-cert-dir /etc/xen/vnc) # # The server can be told to request & validate an
x509 # certificate from the client. Only clients with a cert # signed by the
trusted CA will be able to connect. This # is more secure the password auth
alone. Passwd auth can # used at the same time if desired. To enable client
cert # checking uncomment this: # # (vnc-x509-verify 1) # Allow probing of
disk image file format. This is insecure! It lets # a malicious domU read any
file in dom0. Applies only to fully # virtual domUs. Required for using
formats other than raw. #(enable-image-format-probing no) # Number of seconds
xend will wait for device creation #(device-create-timeout 100) # Strict
checking when doing PCI passthrough; enabled by default #(pci-dev-assign-
strict-check yes)

